# LifeSource
Database system for Blood banks

Every two seconds, someone needs blood in surgery. Blood is essential to save lives. Therefore, blood donation centres (blood banks) were created to provide this urgent need. To facilitate the process of blood donation, we decided to create a database to help gather all needed information and arrange them in an efficient way that will ease access and store all required information.
The main purpose of establishing this blood bank database (DB) is to facilitate and manage the donations, reservations, and supplement of blood quantities required to patients, and this could be done by providing all the necessary data in an organized way that will ease the retrieval, modification, and addition operations. Hence, the blood bank workers can view precise information quickly.
The database is made to schedule donation appointments and patients' registrations, and collect all information about donors, donees, donations, the list of reservations, blood requests, and all related information to the donation process in general. Then organize and classify them to ease the management of blood transfusions between the blood bank and the needy. Also, the DBMS will speed the access and retrieval of required information. For example, displaying different records such as donation records, donor records, searching for a specific donor information, donation dates, information of the health practitioner who’s responsible for the donation process and other services. In addition, it helps manage reservations accurately and professionally, and keeps track of blood bags requisitions and issuance.
Life Source DB will also be helpful for blood studies and would help the proper monitoring of blood available in the blood bank and easy processing of blood requests.
With life source DB, the blood bank employees will not need to worry about the small analytic details that help them focus on their work.
